.TH "ENALYZE" "22" "Febuary 2010" "GENTOOLKIT" ""
.SH "NAME"
enalyze \- Gentoo Installed Package Analysis Tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI "enalyze " "[global\-options] " "module " "[local\-options]" "TARGET"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Enalyze
Is a collection of modules for analyzing the state of installed Gentoo packages for
USE flags or keywords used for installation, and their current masking status.
.br 
It can also optionally (re)generate new /etc/portage/package.* files.
.br 

.br 
.B CAUTION:
This is beta software and is not yet feature complete. Some features, options 
may change in the future.   Any files that it generates are saved to your home directory
and will not harm your system without effort on your part.
.br 

.SH "GLOBAL OPTIONS"
.HP
.B \-h, \-\-help
.br 
Output a help message.
.HP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
.br 
Be less verbose where possible. In some modules, this option can increase the output speed.
.HP
.B \-C, \-\-no\-color
.br 
Do not colorize output.
.HP
.B \-N, \-\-no\-pipe
.br 
Turn off automatic pipe detection. Use this option if you do not want
.B enalyze
To detect if the output is being directed to the screen or to another program
and adjust color and verbosity accordingly.
.HP
.B \-V, \-\-version
.br 
Display \fBGentoolkit\fP's version. Please include this in all bug reports. (see
.B BUGS
below)

.SH "MODULES"
.B Enalyze
Uses a system of modules. Each module has both a long and short name. 
The list below uses the notation "\fBmodule (m)\fP", where \fIm\fP is the short name
and \fImodule\fP is the long name.
.P
You can view the
.B help
message for a specific module by using
.BR "\-h" ", " "\-\-help "
as either a global option (after
.B enalyze
and before the module name) or as a local option (after the module name).

.SS
.BI "analyze (a) [OPTIONS] TARGET"
Report on all installed packages for \fITARGET\fP.
.P

.I R "TARGET" ":"
.HP
.B use
.br 
Will analyze the installed with USE flags for output results.
.HP
.B pkguse
.br 
Will analyze the USE flags information from the installed pkg's 'PKGUSE' file which contains 
only flags settings from /etc/portage/package.use at the time of installation.
.HP
.B keywords
.br 
Will analyze the recorded keywords for output results.
.HP
.B unmask
.br 
Will analyze the installed packages and portage trees for pkgs that require unmasking and report them.
.br 
.P
.I R "LOCAL OPTIONS" ":"
.HP
.B \-u, \-\-unset
.br 
Will also include any USE flags used that were not enabled for some packages.
.HP
.B \-v, \-\-verebose
.br 
Gives more detail about the results found and the current task being performed.

.P
.I R "EXAMPLES" ":"
.EX
.HP
enalyze a \-\-verbose \-\-unset use
.EE
.br 
Report on all use flags used to install the packages.  (\-\-unset) Include in the report all flags
that have been used but also were not set enabled for some packages.  
(\-\-verbose) Also list the packages that used the USE flag setting.
The report will break down the useage and report the USE flag up to 3 times indicating its
setting {"+","\-"," "= unset} prepended to the flag name. 
It will also color the output, red = Disabled, blue = Enabled, plain text = unset
.br 

.SS
.BI "rebuild (r) [OPTIONS] TARGET"
Create a list all packages for \fITARGET\fP settings that are needed for
other than the default settings.

.I R "TARGET" ":"
.HP
.B use
.br 
Will analyze the USE flags for output results.
.HP
.B keywords
.br 
Will analyze the keywords for output results.
.HP
.B unmask
.br 
Will analyze the installed packages and portage trees for pkgs that require
unmasking and produce output/a new /etc/portage/package.unmask file.
.P
.I R "LOCAL OPTIONS" ":"
.HP
.B \-a, \-\-all
.br 
Create files/output for all TARGET(s) found to need it. (not Implemented yet)
.HP
.B \-e, \-\-excact
.br 
Will prepend the pkg with = as well as use the version information for the entries.
.br 
eg.:  =CAT/PKG\-VER flag1 flag2
.HP
.B \-p, \-\-pretend
.br 
Sends the output to the screen instead of a file.
.HP
.B \-v, \-\-verebose
.br 
Gives more detail about the results found and the current task being performed.
.P
.I R "EXAMPLES" ":"
.EX
.HP
enalyze rebuild \-p use
.EE
.br 
Analyze the installed packages database and current system USE flag settings
 and output the results in the form of:
.br 
   
.br 
.EX
CAT/PKG \-flag1 \-flag2 flag3 flag4...

.SS
.BI "clean (c) [OPTIONS] TARGET"
Clean all packages for \fITARGET\fP settings that are found with obsolete settings
for the current settings and pkg ebuild. (not Implemented yet)

.I R "TARGET" ":"
.HP
.B use
.br 
Will analyze the USE flags and /etc/portage/package.use file(s) for entries that
are redundant or no longer used by the pkg.
.HP
.B keywords
.br 
Will analyze the keywords and /etc/portage/package.keywords file(s) for entries
that are no longer needed.
.HP
.B unmask
.br 
Will analyze the installed packages, /etc/portage/package.unmask file(s) and
portage trees for pkgs that no longer require unmasking.
.P
.I R "LOCAL OPTIONS" ":"
.HP
.B \-a, \-\-all
.br 
Clean files/output for all TARGET(s) found to need it. (not Implemented yet)
.HP
.B \-p, \-\-pretend
.br 
Sends the output to the screen instead of a file.
.HP
.B \-v, \-\-verebose
.br 
Gives more detail about the results found and the current task being performed.


.SH "BUGS"
Submit bug reports to http://bugs.gentoo.org.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.br 
Brian Dolbec <brian.dolbec@gmail.com>, 2010
