.TH "revdep\-rebuild" "1" "" "gentoolkit" ""
.SH "NAME"
revdep\-rebuild \- Gentoo: Reverse Dependency Rebuilder
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B revdep\-rebuild
[OPTIONS] [\-\-] [EMERGE OPTIONS]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
revdep\-rebuild scans libraries and binaries for missing shared library dependencies and attempts to fix them by re\-emerging those broken binaries and shared libraries.  It is useful when an upgraded package breaks other software packages that are dependent upon the upgraded package.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-C | \-\-nocolor
Turn off colored output. (This option is also passed to portage.)
.TP 
.B \-d | \-\-debug
Print way too much information (uses bash's set \-xv)
.TP      
.B \-e | \-\-exact
Emerge the most recent version of found packages, without regard to SLOT.
.TP 
.B \-h | \-\-help
Print usage.
.TP 
.B \-i | \-\-ignore
Delete temporary files from previous runs.
.TP 
.B \-k | \-\-keep\-temp
Force revdep\-rebuild not to delete temporary files after it successfully rebuilds packages. This option will NOT prevent revdep\-rebuild from deleting inconsistent or out\-of\-date temporary files.
.TP 
.B \-\-library NAME | \-L NAME
Search for reverse dependencies for a particular library or group of libraries, rather than every library on the system. This option will unconditionally emerge packages that use the named library. \fBNote:\fR This option is used to force packages using the named library to be rebuilt even if they are not broken. NAME can be a full path to a library or basic regular expression.  (See regex(7).)
.TP 
.B \-l | \-\-no\-ld\-path
Do not set LD_LIBRARY_PATH. \fBNote:\fR Using this option will cause revdep\-rebuild to report some false positives.
.TP 
.B \-o | \-\-no\-order
Do not check the build order against the deep dependency list.  This will make revdep\-rebuild faster, but it can cause emerge failures.  Please try revdep\-rebuild without \-o before reporting any bugs.
.TP 
.B \-p | \-\-pretend
Do a dry\-run.  Do not delete temporary files.  (\-k \-p is redundant, but harmless.)  \-\-pretend is assumed when not running revdep\-rebuild as root.
.TP 
.B \-P | \-\-no\-progress
Turn off the progress meter
.TP 
.B \-q | \-\-quiet
Print less output and disable the progress meter.  (This option is also passed to portage.)
.TP 
.B \-v | \-\-verbose
More output.  (Prints the revdep\-rebuild search environment.)
.TP 
.B Options after \-\- are ignored by revdep\-rebuild and passed directly to emerge.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
revdep\-rebuild no longer uses hardcoded paths. To change the default behavior the following variables can be changed by the user.

LD_LIBRARY_MASK \- Mask of specially evaluated libraries
.LP 
SEARCH_DIRS \- List of directories to search for executables and libraries
.LP 
SEARCH_DIRS_MASK \- List of directories to not search

You can prepend to these variables by setting the variable in your environment prior to execution, by placing an entry in /etc/make.conf, or by placing a file in /etc/revdep\-rebuild containing the appropriate variables.

The variables are read and set in the following order:

environment settings \- one time changes by user
.br 
/etc/make.conf \- persistent changes by user
.br 
/etc/revdep\-rebuild/* \- persistent changes by ebuild authors

While a user can edit and modify the files in the /etc/revdep\-rebuild directory, please be aware that the /etc/revdep\-rebuild directory is not under configuration protection and files can be removed and/or overwritten by an ebuild. To change this add /etc/revdep\-rebuild to the CONFIG_PROTECT variable in /etc/make.conf.

An entry of "\-*" means to clear the variable from that point forward.
Example: SEARCH_DIRS="/usr/bin \-*" will set SEARCH_DIRS to contain only /usr/bin

revdep\-rebuild honors the NOCOLOR and PORTAGE_NICENESS variables from /etc/make.conf
.SH "EXAMPLES"
It is recommended that when running revdep\-rebuild that the following command be used initially:
.br 
\fBrevdep\-rebuild \-\-ignore \-\-pretend\fR

To search the entire system, while excluding /mnt and /home:
.br 
\fBenv SEARCH_DIRS="/ \-*" SEARCH_DIRS_MASK="/mnt /home" revdep\-rebuild\fR

To rebuild packages that depend on libkdecore.so.4 from KDE 3.3:
.br 
\fBrevdep\-rebuild \-\-library /usr/kde/3.3/lib/libkdecore.so.4\fR

To rebuild packages that depend upon libImlib.so and libImlib2.so:
.br 
\fBrevdep\-rebuild \-\-library libImlib[2]*.so.*\fR

.SH "FILES"
.P
revdep\-rebuild keeps several pseudo\-temporary files in /var/cache/revdep\-rebuild/. Deleting these files can improve accuracy at the cost of speed:
.TP 15
.I 0_env.rr
Contains environment variables
.TP 
.I 1_files.rr
Contains a list of files to search
.TP 
.I 2_ldpath.rr
Contains the LDPATH
.TP 
.I 3_broken.rr
Contains the list of broken files
.TP 
.I 3_errors.rr
Contains the ldd error output
.TP 
.I 4_raw.rr
Contains the raw list of packages
.TP 
.I 4_owners.rr
Contains the file owners
.TP 
.I 4_pkgs.rr
Contains the unsorted bare package names
.TP 
.I 4_ebuilds.rr
Contains the unsorted atoms
.TP 
.I 5_order.rr
Contains the sorted atoms
.TP 
.I 6_status.rr
Contains the ldd error output

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
revdep\-rebuild returns a zero exit status if it \fBand emerge\fR succeeds, and a nonzero exit status otherwise.
.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
Report bugs to <http://bugs.gentoo.org>. Please do not report emerge failures caused by \-o or \-e. Please include your files from /var/cache/revdep\-rebuild/, your emerge \-\-info, and patches. ;)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
emerge(1), portage(5), regex(7)
