=head1 NAME

echangelog - Gentoo: update portage ChangeLogs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

echangelog [ I<text> ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool provides an easy way to create or update portage ChangeLogs
in Gentoo.  The tool scans the current directory, which is assumed to
be a package directory such as /usr/portage/app-editors/vim, finds
what files have been changed or added, and inserts the appropriate
entry to ChangeLog.  If I<text> is not provided on the command-line,
echangelog prompts for it.

All modifications should occur before running echangelog so that it
can include the appropriate file information in the ChangeLog entry.
For example, you should run "cvs add" on your files, otherwise
echangelog won't know those files are part of the update.

If your text would cause the ChangeLog entry to exceed 80 columns, it
will be rewrapped to keep the ChangeLog neat.  If you need special
formatting in the ChangeLog, then you can either (1) run echangelog
with no text on the command-line, and make sure that your text won't
be too wide, (2) edit the ChangeLog manually.  If you prefer (2), I'd
recommend something like "echangelog blah" so that the header lines
are computed correctly, then edit and change "blah" to your preferred
text.

In addition to updating the ChangeLog, echangelog will automatically
update the copyright year of all out-of-date ebuilds, as well as the
ChangeLog itself.  These updates are included in the diff displayed by
echangelog when it finishes its work.

=head1 OPTIONS

Presently echangelog is simple enough that it supplies no options.
Probably I'll add B<--help> and B<--version> in the future, but for
now it's enough to track the gentoolkit version.

=head1 EXAMPLES

To create a ChangeLog for a completely new package.  The header is
parsed from skel.ebuild.

  $ cvs add metalog-0.1.ebuild
  cvs server: use 'cvs commit' to add this file permanently

  $ echangelog 'New ebuild, thanks to Harvey McGillicuddy'
  --- ChangeLog   1969-12-31 19:00:00.000000000 -0500
  +++ ChangeLog.new       2003-02-23 14:04:06.000000000 -0500
  @@ -0,0 +1,9 @@
  +# ChangeLog for app-admin/metalog
  +# Copyright 2000-2003 Gentoo Technologies, Inc.; Distributed under the GPL v2
  +# $Header$
  +
  +*metalog-0.1 (23 Feb 2003)
  +
  +  23 Feb 2003; Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org> metalog-0.1.ebuild :
  +  New ebuild, thanks to Harvey McGillicuddy
  +

To bump a revision.  Note you need to "cvs add" so that echangelog
will notice the new file.

  $ cvs add metalog-0.1-r1.ebuild
  cvs server: use 'cvs commit' to add this file permanently

  $ echangelog 'Bump revision to fix bug #999'
  --- ChangeLog   2003-02-23 14:04:06.000000000 -0500
  +++ ChangeLog.new       2003-02-23 14:07:48.000000000 -0500
  @@ -2,6 +2,11 @@
   # Copyright 2000-2003 Gentoo Technologies, Inc.; Distributed under the GPL v2
   # $Header$

  +*metalog-0.1-r1 (23 Feb 2003)
  +
  +  23 Feb 2003; Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org> metalog-0.1-r1.ebuild :
  +  Bump revision to fix bug #999
  +
   *metalog-0.1 (23 Feb 2003)

     23 Feb 2003; Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org> metalog-0.1.ebuild :

For a multi-line entry, omit the command-line arg.

  $ echangelog
  Please type the log entry, finish with ctrl-d
  Bump revision to fix bug #999.  Necessary to bump the revision because
  the problem appears at run-time, not compile-time.  This should also
  give users the updated default configuration file.
  --- ChangeLog   2003-02-23 14:09:12.000000000 -0500
  +++ ChangeLog.new       2003-02-23 14:12:43.000000000 -0500
  @@ -2,6 +2,13 @@
   # Copyright 2000-2003 Gentoo Technologies, Inc.; Distributed under the GPL v2
   # $Header$

  +*metalog-0.1-r1 (23 Feb 2003)
  +
  +  23 Feb 2003; Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org> metalog-0.1-r1.ebuild :
  +  Bump revision to fix bug #999.  Necessary to bump the revision because
  +  the problem appears at run-time, not compile-time.  This should also
  +  give users the updated default configuration file.
  +
   *metalog-0.1 (23 Feb 2003)

     23 Feb 2003; Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org> metalog-0.1.ebuild :

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over

=item ECHANGELOG_USER

If echangelog can't figure out your username for the entry, you should
set ECHANGELOG_USER.  For example, export ECHANGELOG_USER="Aron
Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org>"

=back

=head1 NOTES

As of the most recent version of echangelog (when this man-page
appeared), echangelog puts all new entries at the top of the file
instead of finding the appropriate *version line within the file.
This is because that "new" ChangeLog format was never agreed upon by
the Gentoo developers.  Unfortunately the existence of both formats
will undoubtedly cause much confusion.

This also means that the examples above are wrong, since I just copied
them from some old email.  However they're not much wrong. ;-)

This tool was written by Aron Griffis <agriffis@gentoo.org>.  Bugs
found should be filed against me at http://bugs.gentoo.org/
